Write Request to Cassandra Cluster:

Write request from the client goes to the co-ordinator node which sends the write request
to N different nodes based on the replication factor.

Now the co-ordinator node waits for N successes and then returns success to the client.

Each of N nodes gets the write request in the form of "Row Mutation Message"

A node performs 2 actions for each Row Mutation Message.

1. appends the mutation to the commit log for transactional purpose
2. updates the memtable with the change

At last , a full memtable structure and data are written to a disk based structure called sstable.

SSTable------------Sorted String Table.

SSTable is the persistence format of cassandra table rows stored in the disk.
In the data directory for the table, the file which ends with Data.db is the sstable file.

nodetool:
nodetool  is a command line tool to manage the cassandra cluster.


Exercise:

Create a keyspace called next_keyspace with replication factor of 3.
Create a table called employee within this key space with the following fields.

emp_id	int primary key
name text
designation text

data:

emp_id	name	designation
2001	Raghav	Developer
2002	Arun	Accountant
2003	Priya	Architect

Flush each of the nodes and check the sstable content of the employee table in each node.
Make sure that each row is replicated in all 3 nodes.
Also check whether the content of sstable matches with the output of nodetool getendpoints.

Toekn:

Cassandra data is partitioned based on token of the row's partition key.

The token is generated using a Hash function.

Token's value ranges from -2^63-1 to +2^63

Cassandra represents the data managed by the cluster as a ring.

Each node in the ring is assinged a range of data described by a token which determines its position in the ring.

A node claims ownership of the range of values less than or equal to each token and greater than
the last token of the previous node, known as the token range.

Authentication & Authorization:

steps:

1. stop any cassandra or cqlsh instances if they are running.

2. change the authenticator property in cassandra.yaml file to PasswordAuthenticator.

3. change the authorizer property in cassandra.yaml to CassandraAuthorizer

4. save the cassandra.yaml file and start cassandra server
